# FR0008 End the last element with a comma.

When creating an enumeration by providing elements, one element per line, add a comma at the end of the last element.

## Example

Don't do that:

```csharp
IEnumerable<Rectangle> TestRectangles => [
    new(0, 0, 5, 5),
    new(4, 3, 7, 2),
    new(1, 1, 1, 1)
];  //             ↑ No comma here.
```

Instead, do:

```csharp
IEnumerable<Rectangle> TestRectangles => [
    new(0, 0, 5, 5),
    new(4, 3, 7, 2),
    new(1, 1, 1, 1),
];  //             ↑ Comma.
```

## Reasons

**1.** When a new element is added at the end of the enumeration, one would have to first add a comma to the previous element, and only then append the new element on the next line. This would cause a diff of the change to cover two lines: one line changed, the other one added. If the comma already exists, the diff would be much simpler, showing only that one line is added.

**2.** If elements are reordered (for instance sorted by alphabetical order), the line without a comma may end up in the middle of the enumeration, preventing the code from compiling.

For instance, the example above would become:

```csharp
IEnumerable<Rectangle> TestRectangles => [
    new(0, 0, 5, 5),
    new(1, 1, 1, 1)  // Syntax error, ',' expected.
    new(4, 3, 7, 2),
];
```

This forces the person to go and fix an issue that could be easily prevented in the first place.

## Limits

**1.** Do not put a comma if all the elements are on the same line. While syntax such as `IEnumerable<int> values = [1, 2, 3,];` is allowed, it looks weird.

**2.** If the elements are not expected to change or be reordered, such as in:

```csharp
IEnumerable<Color> PrimaryColors => [
    new(255, 0, 0),
    new(0, 255, 0),
    new(0, 0, 255)
];
```

none of the reasons below apply: no additional primary color would magically appear, and there is little chance for the colors to change order. In this situation, one may still decide to add a comma *for consistency*, but this is by no means mandatory.
