# SM0003 Do not use leading zeros in numbers

When using numeric values in code, do not prefix them with one or multiple zeros, including when specifying dates.

## Example

Don't do that:

```csharp
var birthday = new DateOnly(1985, 04, 09);
```

Instead, do:

```csharp
var birthday = new DateOnly(1985, 4, 9);
```

## Reasons

**1.** Those zeros don't add anything useful to the code.

**2.** It makes code inconsistent. If one decides to add zeros in the example of a date, where else the zeros should also be added? How such a rule mandating the use of leading zeros should exactly be formulated? For instance, should a 0–100 percentage be written as `SetPercentage(060);` then? How a style checker can enforce the rule?

**2.** Some languages, such as JavaScript, don't just ignore leading zeros, but sometimes use them as an indication that the number is using octal notation. For instance, executing `072 + 1` in a browser console would produce 59, not 73. While C# doesn't have the idiosyncrasy of JavaScript, it is not unusual for developers to switch between those two languages, and seeing leading zeros in C# when being familiar with JavaScript creates an additional strain when reading code.

**3.** When doing a textual search for, say, the 14th of May, 2022, knowing that it was created using a constructor of `DateTime` type, one would possibly search for `2022, 5, 14` (no parenthesis, to find the occurrences where there was a line break before the arguments), but not for `2022, 05, 14`, missing the occurrences that were written this way.
